    When I wrote the following pages,or rather the bulk of them,I lived alone,in the woods,a mile from any neighbor,in a house which I have built myself,
on the shore of Walden Pond,in Concord,Massachusetts,and earned my living by the labor of my hands only.
I lived there two years and two months.At present I am a sojourner in civilized life again.
    I should not obtrude my affairs so much on the notice of my readers if very particular inquires had not been made by my townsmen concerning my mode of life,
which some would call impertinent,though they do not appear to me at all impertinent,but considering the circumstances,very natural and pertinent.
Some have asked what I got to eat;if I did feel lonesome;if I was not afraid;and the like.Others have been curious to learn what portion of my income I devoted to charitable purposes;and some,who have large families,how many poor children I maintained.
I will therefore ask those of my readers who feel no particular interest in me to pardon me if I undertake to answer some of these question in this book.In most books,the I ,or first person,is omitted;in this it will be retained;that,in respect to egotism ,is the main difference.
We commonly do not remember that it is,after all,always the first person that is speaking.I should not talk so much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well.
Unfortunately,I am confined  to this  theme by narrowness of my experience.Moreover,I,on my side,require of every writer ,first or last,a simple and sincere account of his own life,and not merely what he has heard of other men's life;some such account that he would send to his kindred from a distant land;for if he has lived sincerely,it must have been in a distant land to me.
Perhaps these pages are more particularly addressed to poor students.As for the rest of my readers,they will accept such portions as apply to them.
I trust that none will stretch the seams in putting on the coat,for it may do good service to him whom it fits.
    I would fain say something,not so much concerning the Chinese and Sandwich Islanders as you who read these pages,who are said to live in New England;something about your condition,especially about your outward condition or circumstances in this world,in this town,what it is,whether it is necessary that it be as bad as it is,whether it cannot be improved as well as not.I have traveled a good deal in Concord;and everywhere,in shops,and offices,and fields,the inhabitants have appeared to me to be doing penance in a thousand remarkable ways.
